{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f4\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Helvetica;}{\f40\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f41\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f43\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f44\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f45\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f46\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f47\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f48\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f80\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Helvetica CE;}{\f81\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Helvetica Cyr;}{\f83\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Helvetica Greek;}{\f84\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Helvetica Tur;}
{\f85\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Helvetica (Hebrew);}{\f86\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Helvetica (Arabic);}{\f87\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Helvetica Baltic;}{\f88\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Helvetica (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}
{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid70106\rsid330098
\rsid7100294\rsid14707116}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.6359;}{\info{\author  }{\operator  }{\creatim\yr2011\mo5\dy4\hr6\min42}{\revtim\yr2011\mo6\dy1\hr12\min57}{\version3}{\edmins0}{\nofpages9}{\nofwords2167}{\nofchars12358}{\*\company MS User}
{\nofcharsws14497}{\vern24703}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot330098 \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f4\insrsid330098 
This upgrade document is intended for people running 3.0.X or higher and are on Tomcat 6, Postgres 8.4, and Java 6 only. This document is written to only work if you followed our installation instructions for 3.0.X
, if you did not follow our exact instructions you might have to make changes to upgrade your instance.
\par 
\par If you are running an earlier version of OpenClinica or the software stack please upgrade before starting this guide.
\par }{\f4\insrsid70106 
\par If you are using Oracle as the database, please run the Grant_View.sql file before doing anything else.
\par }{\f4\insrsid330098 
\par }{\b\f4\insrsid330098 Backup OpenClinica
\par ------------------------------------------------------}{\f4\insrsid330098 
\par So before we upgrade we will stop tomcat and take a backup. To accomplish this run the following commands.
\par \tab 
\par \tab /etc/init.d/tomcat }{\b\f4\insrsid330098 (Confirm tomcat is stopped before continuing)}{\f4\insrsid330098 
\par \tab mkdir -p /usr/local/oc/backup/manual/`date +%b-%d-%Y`
\par \tab cd /usr/local/oc/backup/manual/`date +%b-%d-%Y` 
\par \tab /opt/PostgreSQL/8.4/bin/pg_dump -F c -U postgres openclinica > openclinica.backup }{\b\f4\insrsid330098 (When prompted for a password enter your "postgres" db superusers password)
\par \tab }{\f4\insrsid330098 /opt/PostgreSQL/8.4/bin/pg_dump -F c -U postgres openclinica_test > openclinica_test.backup}{\b\f4\insrsid330098 (When prompted for a password enter your "postgres" db superusers password)
\par \tab }{\f4\insrsid330098 cp -rf /usr/local/tomcat/openclinica* . 
\par \tab cp -rf /usr/local/tomcat/webapps/OpenClinica* .
\par 
\par We have now have a complete backup of your OpenClinica instances.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\f4\insrsid330098 Upgrade OpenClinica
\par ------------------------------------------------------
\par }{\f4\insrsid330098 Enter the following commands
\par \tab wget --no-check-certificate --http-user=installer --http-password=dhy29sdh1 https://svn.akazaresearch.com/oc/software/OpenClinica-3.1/enterprise/OpenClinica-3.1.zip
\par \tab cd /usr/local/oc/install
\par \tab unzip OpenClinica-3.1*
\par \tab cd OpenClinica-3.1*/distribution
\par \tab unzip OpenClinica.war -d OpenClinica
\par \tab cp -rf OpenClinica OpenClinica_test
\par \tab rm -rf /usr/local/tomcat/work/Catalina/localhost/OpenClinica*
\par \tab rm -rf /usr/local/tomcat/webapps/OpenClinica*
\par \tab cp -rf OpenClinica* /usr/local/tomcat/webapps
\par \tab rm -f /usr/local/tomcat/webapps/OpenClinica.war}{\b\f4\insrsid330098 
\par 
\par 
\par Configuring the OpenClinica application
\par ------------------------------------------------------}{\f4\insrsid330098 
\par The configuration of OpenClinica in 3.1 has been designed to be easier for fresh installs. Unfortunately due to this we completely redesigned the configuration file itself and now for upgrades you have to edit the file by ha
nd rather then copying the old configuration file over the new one.
\par 
\par The configuration files are located at "/usr/local/tomcat/webapps/OpenClinica/WEB-INF/classes/datainfo.properties " for the production instance and "/usr/local/tomcat/webapps/OpenClinica_test/WEB-INF/classes/datainfo.properties " for the test instance.

\par 
\par Edit /usr/local/tomcat/webapps/OpenClinica/WEB-INF/classes/datainfo.properties and "/usr/local/tomcat/webapps/OpenClinica_test/WEB-INF/classes/datainfo.properties" and change the properties
 to suit your server environment as needed.  The initial datainfo.properties file looks something like this:
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 1 - Database Configuration
\par #
\par # Database configuration is done with the following 6 properties
\par # The dbType options are either postgres or oracle.
\par # Enter the user name and password to access the database in 
\par # dbUser and dbPass.
\par # The db field is for the name of the database and provide the port
\par # in dbPort.
\par # dbHost can be a URL, IP address or localhost
\par #
\par # REQUIRED
\par #############################################################################
\par dbType=postgres
\par dbUser=clinica
\par dbPass=clinica
\par db=$\{WEBAPP.lower\}
\par dbPort=5432
\par dbHost=localhost
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 2 - filePath
\par #
\par # File Path is the string which declares the
\par # repository for all uploaded and generated
\par # files in the system, including CRFs and
\par # data sets.  The directory should NOT be
\par # accessible by the web server.
\par #
\par # REQUIRED.  
\par #############################################################################
\par filePath=$catalina.home/$\{WEBAPP.lower\}.data/
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 3 - Attached File Location
\par # Location for files if item data type is "file". If it has been kept empty,
\par # "filePath" will be used as the attached file location.
\par # This will be a sub folder within the filePath location only.
\par # You may configure a full path that points to a directory outside of the filePath.
\par # If you configure a full path, it must have a trailing slash.
\par # Example = /usr/local/attached_file/ or C:\\\\attached_file\\\\
\par #
\par # NOT REQUIRED
\par #############################################################################
\par # attached_file_location=
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 4 - user_account_notification
\par #
\par # User Account Notification is the method by
\par # which new users are sent their passwords.
\par # Users can be sent passwords via email,
\par # or the password can be displayed on the screen
\par # to the administrator, who is instructed to
\par # write it down and physically give it to the user
\par # in question.  The default is email.
\par #
\par # REQUIRED.  
\par #############################################################################
\par userAccountNotification=email
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 5 - adminEmail
\par #
\par # The Admin Email is the field to set the administrator's
\par # email for a given server. It is also used for
\par # replies to the email messages sent by the system.
\par #
\par # REQUIRED
\par #############################################################################
\par adminEmail=web-snapshot@example.com
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 6- Spring Based Email System
\par #
\par # Configure the Email SMTP host below. If the host
\par # requires a username and password make sure
\par # mail.smtp(s).auth is set to true.
\par # Configure mail protocol via mail.protocol, Valid options 
\par # would be smtp or smtps.
\par # Configure smtp over ttls by setting mail.smtp(s).starttls.enable
\par # to true.
\par # Configure connection timeout. Preconfigred to 5 secs
\par #############################################################################
\par mailHost=mail.akazaresearch.com
\par mailPort=25
\par mailProtocol=smtp
\par mailUsername=
\par mailPassword=
\par mailSmtpAuth=false
\par mailSmtpStarttls.enable=false
\par mailSmtpsAuth=false
\par mailSmtpsStarttls.enable=false
\par mailSmtpConnectionTimeout=100
\par mailErrorMsg=developers@openclinica.org
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 7 - passwd_expiration
\par #
\par # Passwd Expiration Time is the number of
\par # days that can elapse before a user is notified that
\par # they should change their password.
\par #
\par # REQUIRED.
\par #############################################################################
\par passwdExpirationTime=360
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 8 - sysURL
\par #
\par # The web address for the system.  It can either be an external
\par # address (demo.openclinica.org) or an internal IP
\par # address (192.168.2.000).
\par # NOTE: If you reconfigure the address or port in some later
\par # step, such as by configuring SSL, you will need to come back
\par # and update this file. You will also need to restart tomcat
\par # for changes to this take effect.
\par #
\par # REQUIRED
\par #############################################################################
\par sysURL=http://svn.akazaresearch.com:8081/$\{WEBAPP.lower\}-SNAPSHOT./MainMenu
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 9 - max_inactive_interval
\par #
\par # This is maximum time interval between client requests. That is,
\par # if users leave any page open without sending a request to the 
\par # server, after this time interval, when users attempt sending 
\par # request they will be directed to login page.
\par #
\par # REQUIRED
\par #############################################################################
\par maxInactiveInterval=3600
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 10- change_passwd_required
\par #
\par # Change Passwd Required is a flag which will force users to change
\par # their password when they log on for the first time or when their
\par # time expires. 1 is for required, 0 is for not required.
\par # 
\par # REQUIRED. 
\par #############################################################################
\par change_passwd_required=1
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 11 - Logging configuration
\par log.dir=/usr/local/tomcat/logs/openclinica
\par # Specify the log location - local/syslog/both
\par logLocation = local
\par # Specify logging level - trace/debug/info/warn/error
\par logLevel = info
\par syslog.host = localhost
\par syslog.port = 514
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 12- News/About
\par # On the OpenClinica login screen, there will be a box to the right of the login section
\par # which can contain an RSS feed.  You can configure what RSS feed is used in the rss.rl field.
\par # If you do not want the RSS feed, please comment out rss.url and rss.more and uncomment
\par # about.text1 and about.text2.  These two fields can be used for any free form text that you
\par # you want to appear on the OpenClinica login page.
\par # the default feed is http://clinicalresearch.wordpress.com/feed/
\par # default value for rss.more http://clinicalresearch.wordpress.com/
\par #############################################################################
\par # rssUrl=http://clinicalresearch.wordpress.com/feed/
\par # rssMore=http://clinicalresearch.wordpress.com/
\par # about.text1= Hello World 1
\par # about.text2= Hello World 2
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 13 - CRF File Upload Configuration
\par # crf.file.extensionSettings can have 3 values valid,invalid or left empty which defaults to valid.
\par # if crf.file.extensionSetting= valid , then extensions specified can be uploaded.
\par # if crf.file.extensionSetting= invalid , then extensions specified can NOT be uploaded.
\par # if crf.file.extensions is left empty and crf.file.extensionSettings=valid then all extensions are valid
\par # if crf.file.extensions is left empty and crf.file.extensionSettings=invalid then all extensions are NOT valid  
\par # separate extensions with a comma and do not include the leading dot.
\par #############################################################################
\par # crfFileExtensions=
\par # crfFileExtensionSettings=
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 14 - supportURL
\par #
\par # The Support URL is included in the support button that appears
\par # in the top right corner of all pages in OPenClinica. By including
\par # the URL here we will be able to configure it depending on the adopter
\par # 
\par # REQUIRED 
\par #############################################################################
\par # supportURL=http://www.openclinica.org/OpenClinica/3.0/support/
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 15- Quartz Scheduler Configuration
\par #
\par # Configure the mis-fire threshold for the scheduler, 
\par # and the number of extract jobs can run at a single time.
\par #
\par # REQUIRED
\par #############################################################################
\par org.quartz.jobStore.misfireThreshold=18000000
\par org.quartz.threadPool.threadCount=1
\par org.quartz.threadPool.threadPriority=5
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 16 - CCTS configuration
\par # 
\par # This is used for OpenClinica instances that have been modified and configured
\par # to work with the Cancer Clinical Trials Suites.  This is a caBIG suite of applications.
\par # The configuration determines how long OpenClinica will hold a transaction from C3PR
\par # and will wait for a roll back message before committing it to the database.
\par #
\par # NOT REQUIRED
\par #############################################################################
\par ccts.waitBeforeCommit=6000
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 17 - Facility information
\par #
\par # The OpenClinica defaults will be used when creating a new study
\par # unless you uncomment each property and provide a value next to 
\par # each = sign.
\par #
\par # NOT REQUIRED
\par #############################################################################
\par # FacName=
\par # FacCity=
\par # FacState=
\par # FacZIP=
\par # FacCountry=
\par # FacContactName=
\par # FacContactDegree=
\par # FacContactPhone=
\par # FacContactEmail=
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 18 - export data file path
\par #
\par # Export Data File Path is the string which (optionally) 
\par # declares a specific file path for file extracts to be
\par # saved.  This is a sub folder of filePath.
\par # Note that if it is set, files from Jobs only will be saved 
\par # to two places: this directory and under the above file path
\par # declared in the 'filePath' property.
\par #
\par # NOT REQUIRED.  Please comment out if you want Jobs to generate
\par # one file/files only, in the directory structure under 'filePath'.
\par #############################################################################
\par # exportFilePath=scheduled_data_export
\par #############################################################################
\par # 19 - Usage statistics configuration
\par #\'ef\'bf\'bdUsage statistics" refers to information automatically sent back to OpenClinica.org
\par # to help us figure out how well OpenClinica is working and help us improve it in 
\par #future versions.
\par #This includes technical information such as the version of OpenClinica installed, the #number of studies created and user load. These statistics D
O NOT include information such #as study or CRF names, study data, or user information. We collect this data in aggregate #and use it according to our Privacy Policy [LINK TO PRIVACY POLICY] to improve our #products and services.
\par #
\par #As part of system confi
guration, we give you the option to help us improve OpenClinica by #sending these usage statistics. If you elect to send this information but later change #your mind, you can disable this feature in the datainfo.properties file by changing 
\par # 'collectStats' value to 'false'
\par collectStats=true
\par usage.stats.host=192.168.15.184
\par usage.stats.port=514
\par OpenClinica_version=SNAPSHOT
\par 
\par }{\b\f4\insrsid330098 Once done editing these files save it and run the following commands.
\par \tab }{\f4\insrsid330098 chown -R tomcat /usr/local/tomcat/*
\par \tab chown -R tomcat /usr/local/apache-*
\par 
\par At this point you have installed and setup tomcat, java, postgres and OpenClinica. Restart your computer and verify OpenClinica starts on boot with the following command.
\par \tab reboot}{\b\f4\insrsid330098 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid330098 {\b\f4\insrsid330098\charrsid14707116 Please review the Duplicate Data in item_data table file in:

\par }{\f4\insrsid330098 
\par /usr/local/oc/OpenClinica-3.1/config/databases/3.1/PostgreSQL or Oracle/upgrade
\par 
\par Called }{\f4\insrsid330098\charrsid14707116 README_Instructions_for_Duplicate_Row_Fix.txt
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\f4\insrsid330098 
\par }}