{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f4\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Helvetica;}{\f239\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f240\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f242\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f243\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f244\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f245\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f246\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f247\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\*\cs15 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 \styrsid1533434 Hyperlink;}}
{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1533434\rsid2950465\rsid4028737\rsid6962956\rsid9842349\rsid16059979}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.6359;}{\info{\author  }{\operator  }{\creatim\yr2011\mo7\dy17\hr15\min4}
{\revtim\yr2011\mo8\dy12\hr13\min43}{\version4}{\edmins26}{\nofpages10}{\nofwords2460}{\nofchars14027}{\*\company MS User}{\nofcharsws16455}{\vern24703}}\margl1440\margr1440 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot4028737 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f4\insrsid4028737 OPENCLINICA INSTALLATION GUIDE for LINUX - ENTERPRISE
\par OpenClinica Version }{\b\f4\insrsid9842349 ws-3.1.1}{\b\f4\insrsid4028737 
\par Document Version 1.0 
\par --------------------------------------------------------------
\par Updated: }{\b\f4\insrsid1533434 August 12th}{\b\f4\insrsid4028737 , 2011 smartin@akazaresearch.com, pgalvin@akazaresearch.com
\par 
\par About OpenClinica
\par ------------------------------------------------------
\par }{\f4\insrsid4028737 
\par OpenClinica: Open Source Software Platform for Managing Clinical Research Studies Professional Open Source Solutions for the Clinical Research Enterprise
\par 
\par OpenClinica is a free, open source clinical trial software platform for Electronic Data Capture (EDC) clinical data management in clinical research. The software is web-based and designed to support all types of
 clinical studies in diverse research settings. From the ground up, OpenClinica is built on leading independent standards to achieve high levels of interoperability. Its modular architecture and transparent, collaborative development model offer outstandi
ng flexibility while supporting a robust, enterprise-quality solution.
\par 
\par More about OpenClinica: http://www.OpenClinica.org [^]
\par 
\par Software License
\par 
\par OpenClinica is distributed under the GNU Lesser General Public License (GNU LGPL). For details see: http://www.openclinica.org/license [^] or LICENSE.txt distributed with this distribution.}{\b\f4\insrsid4028737 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1533434 {\b\f4\insrsid1533434 
\par Web Services Install
\par ------------------------------------------------------
\par 
\par }{\f4\insrsid1533434 If you are installing web services on a different server than your web application, please refer to }{\field{\*\fldinst {\f4\insrsid1533434  HYPERLINK "}{\f4\insrsid1533434\charrsid1533434 https://docs.openclinica.com/3.1/installation
}{\f4\insrsid1533434 " }{\f4\insrsid16059979\charrsid6962956 {\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b02000000170000002e000000680074007400700073003a002f002f0064006f00630073002e006f00700065006e0063006c0069006e006900630061002e0063006f006d002f0033002e0031002f0069006e007300740061006c006c006100740069006f006e000000e0c9ea79f9ba
ce118c8200aa004ba90b74000000680074007400700073003a002f002f0064006f00630073002e006f00700065006e0063006c0069006e006900630061002e0063006f006d002f0033002e0031002f0069006e007300740061006c006c006100740069006f006e000000795881f43b1d7f48af2c825dc485276300000000a5
ab000000}}}{\fldrslt {\cs15\f4\ul\cf2\insrsid1533434\charrsid6962956 https://docs.openclinica.com/3.1/installation}}}{\f4\insrsid1533434  for Java, Tomcat and Postgres information.
\par 
\par Web services depends on a database that has already been upgraded by the web application to 3.1.1 and contains data.  }{\f4\insrsid1533434\charrsid1533434 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\f4\insrsid4028737 
\par Linux Install
\par ------------------------------------------------------
\par }{\f4\insrsid4028737 These instructions are meant to be non distro specific installation instructions for OpenClinica and its software stack. These instructions have been tested on RedHat EL5.}{\b\f4\insrsid4028737 
\par 
\par }{\f4\insrsid4028737 Please contact contact@akazaresearch.com for services to assist with on-site or remote installation, validation and QA testing of OpenClinica to assure complete deployment.}{\b\f4\insrsid4028737 
\par 
\par OS Requirements
\par ------------------------------------------------------
\par }{\f4\insrsid4028737 The following packages should be installed on your OS: vim, unzip, tar
\par "root" user access is required, all command in this install guide should be ran with root level privileges.
\par }{\b\f4\insrsid4028737 
\par }{\f4\insrsid4028737 This will download OpenClinica Enterprise edition.
\par \tab wget --no-check-certificate --http-user=installer --http-password=dhy29sdh1 https://svn.akazaresearch.com/oc/software/OpenClinica-3.1.1/enterprise/OpenClinica-3.1.1.zip
\par 
\par }{\b\f4\insrsid4028737 Setup OpenClinica application and db.
\par ------------------------------------------------------
\par }{\f4\insrsid4028737 You should already be in "/ust/local/oc/install" if not cd into it now via the command below.
\par \tab cd /usr/local/oc/install
\par \tab unzip OpenClinica-}{\f4\insrsid9842349 ws-}{\f4\insrsid4028737 3.1.1*
\par \tab cd OpenClinica-}{\f4\insrsid9842349 ws-}{\f4\insrsid4028737 3.1.1*/distribution
\par \tab unzip OpenClinica}{\f4\insrsid9842349 -ws}{\f4\insrsid4028737 .war -d OpenClinica
\par \tab cp -rf OpenClinica OpenClinica_test}{\f4\insrsid9842349 -ws}{\f4\insrsid4028737 
\par \tab cp -rf OpenClinica* /usr/local/tomcat/webapps
\par \tab rm -f /usr/local/tomcat/webapps/OpenClinica}{\f4\insrsid9842349 -ws}{\f4\insrsid4028737 .war
\par }{\b\f4\insrsid4028737 
\par }{\f4\insrsid4028737 OpenClinica is now deployed we will configure it after we setup the databases. 
\par 
\par }{\b\f4\insrsid4028737 Configuring the OpenClinica application
\par ------------------------------------------------------}{\f4\insrsid4028737 
\par The configuration of OpenClinica in 3.1.1 has gotten much easier if you followed these installation instruction you should only need to edit one parameter in the configuration file (dbPass) for OpenClinica to work. You may want to 
add email support and other custom settings.
\par 
\par The configuration files are located at "/usr/local/tomcat/webapps/OpenClinica}{\f4\insrsid9842349 -ws}{\f4\insrsid4028737 /WEB-INF/classes/datainfo.properties " for the production instance and "/usr/local/tomcat/webapps/OpenClinica_test/WEB-INF/classes/da
tainfo.properties " for the test instance.
\par 
\par Edit /usr/local/tomcat/webapps/OpenClinica}{\f4\insrsid9842349 -ws}{\f4\insrsid4028737 /WEB-INF/classes/datainfo.properties and "/usr/local/tomcat/webapps/OpenClinica_test}{\f4\insrsid9842349 -ws}{\f4\insrsid4028737 
/WEB-INF/classes/datainfo.properties" and change the properties to suit your server environment as needed.  }{\f4\insrsid1533434 
\par 
\par The only parameters that affect Web Services are #1}{\f4\insrsid9842349  }{\f4\insrsid1533434 and #8.
\par 
\par }{\f4\insrsid4028737 The initial datainfo.properties file looks something like this:
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 1 - Database Configuration
\par #
\par # Database configuration is done with the following 6 properties
\par # The dbType options are either postgres or oracle.
\par # Enter the user name and password to access the database in 
\par # dbUser and dbPass.
\par # The db field is for the name of the database and provide the port
\par # in dbPort.
\par # dbHost can be a URL, IP address or localhost
\par #
\par # REQUIRED
\par #############################################################################
\par dbType=postgres
\par dbUser=clinica
\par dbPass=clinica
\par db=$\{WEBAPP.lower\}
\par dbPort=5432
\par dbHost=localhost
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 2 - filePath
\par #
\par # File Path is the string which declares the
\par # repository for all uploaded and generated
\par # files in the system, including CRFs and
\par # data sets.  The directory should NOT be
\par # accessible by the web server.
\par #
\par # REQUIRED.  
\par #############################################################################
\par filePath=$catalina.home/$\{WEBAPP.lower\}.data/
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 3 - Attached File Location
\par # Location for files if item data type is "file". If it has been kept empty,
\par # "filePath" will be used as the attached file location.
\par # This will be a sub folder within the filePath location only.
\par # You may configure a full path that points to a directory outside of the filePath.
\par # If you configure a full path, it must have a trailing slash.
\par # Example = /usr/local/attached_file/ or C:\\\\attached_file\\\\
\par #
\par # NOT REQUIRED
\par #############################################################################
\par # attached_file_location=
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 4 - user_account_notification
\par #
\par # User Account Notification is the method by
\par # which new users are sent their passwords.
\par # Users can be sent passwords via email,
\par # or the password can be displayed on the screen
\par # to the administrator, who is instructed to
\par # write it down and physically give it to the user
\par # in question.  The default is email.
\par #
\par # REQUIRED.  
\par #############################################################################
\par userAccountNotification=email
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 5 - adminEmail
\par #
\par # The Admin Email is the field to set the administrator's
\par # email for a given server. It is also used for
\par # replies to the email messages sent by the system.
\par #
\par # REQUIRED
\par #############################################################################
\par adminEmail=web-snapshot@example.com
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 6- Spring Based Email System
\par #
\par # Configure the Email SMTP host below. If the host
\par # requires a username and password make sure
\par # mail.smtp(s).auth is set to true.
\par # Configure mail protocol via mail.protocol, Valid options 
\par # would be smtp or smtps.
\par # Configure smtp over ttls by setting mail.smtp(s).starttls.enable
\par # to true.
\par # Configure connection timeout. Preconfigred to 5 secs
\par #############################################################################
\par mailHost=mail.akazaresearch.com
\par mailPort=25
\par mailProtocol=smtp
\par mailUsername=
\par mailPassword=
\par mailSmtpAuth=false
\par mailSmtpStarttls.enable=false
\par mailSmtpsAuth=false
\par mailSmtpsStarttls.enable=false
\par mailSmtpConnectionTimeout=100
\par mailErrorMsg=developers@openclinica.org
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 7 - passwd_expiration
\par #
\par # Passwd Expiration Time is the number of
\par # days that can elapse before a user is notified that
\par # they should change their password.
\par #
\par # REQUIRED.
\par #############################################################################
\par passwdExpirationTime=360
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 8 - sysURL
\par #
\par # The web address for the system.  It can either be an external
\par # address (demo.openclinica.org) or an internal IP
\par # address (192.168.2.000).
\par # NOTE: If you reconfigure the address or port in some later
\par # step, such as by configuring SSL, you will need to come back
\par # and update this file. You will also need to restart tomcat
\par # for changes to this take effect.
\par #
\par # REQUIRED
\par #############################################################################
\par sysURL=http://svn.akazaresearch.com:8081/$\{WEBAPP.lower\}-SNAPSHOT./MainMenu
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 9 - max_inactive_interval
\par #
\par # This is maximum time interval between client requests. That is,
\par # if users leave any page open without sending a request to the 
\par # server, after this time interval, when users attempt sending 
\par # request they will be directed to login page.
\par #
\par # REQUIRED
\par #############################################################################
\par maxInactiveInterval=3600
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 10- change_passwd_required
\par #
\par # Change Passwd Required is a flag which will force users to change
\par # their password when they log on for the first time or when their
\par # time expires. 1 is for required, 0 is for not required.
\par # 
\par # REQUIRED. 
\par #############################################################################
\par change_passwd_required=1
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 11 - Logging configuration
\par log.dir=/usr/local/tomcat/logs/openclinica
\par # Specify the log location - local/syslog/both
\par logLocation = local
\par # Specify logging level - trace/debug/info/warn/error
\par logLevel = info
\par syslog.host = localhost
\par syslog.port = 514
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 12- News/About
\par # On the OpenClinica login screen, there will be a box to the right of the login section
\par # which can contain an RSS feed.  You can configure what RSS feed is used in the rss.rl field.
\par # If you do not want the RSS feed, please comment out rss.url and rss.more and uncomment
\par # about.text1 and about.text2.  These two fields can be used for any free form text that you
\par # you want to appear on the OpenClinica login page.
\par # the default feed is http://clinicalresearch.wordpress.com/feed/
\par # default value for rss.more http://clinicalresearch.wordpress.com/
\par #############################################################################
\par # rssUrl=http://clinicalresearch.wordpress.com/feed/
\par # rssMore=http://clinicalresearch.wordpress.com/
\par # about.text1= Hello World 1
\par # about.text2= Hello World 2
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 13 - CRF File Upload Configuration
\par # crf.file.extensionSettings can have 3 values valid,invalid or left empty which defaults to valid.
\par # if crf.file.extensionSetting= valid , then extensions specified can be uploaded.
\par # if crf.file.extensionSetting= invalid , then extensions specified can NOT be uploaded.
\par # if crf.file.extensions is left empty and crf.file.extensionSettings=valid then all extensions are valid
\par # if crf.file.extensions is left empty and crf.file.extensionSettings=invalid then all extensions are NOT valid  
\par # separate extensions with a comma and do not include the leading dot.
\par #############################################################################
\par # crfFileExtensions=
\par # crfFileExtensionSettings=
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 14 - supportURL
\par #
\par # The Support URL is included in the support button that appears
\par # in the top right corner of all pages in OPenClinica. By including
\par # the URL here we will be able to configure it depending on the adopter
\par # 
\par # REQUIRED 
\par #############################################################################
\par # supportURL=http://www.openclinica.org/OpenClinica/3.0/support/
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 15- Quartz Scheduler Configuration
\par #
\par # Configure the mis-fire threshold for the scheduler, 
\par # and the number of extract jobs can run at a single time.
\par #
\par # REQUIRED
\par #############################################################################
\par org.quartz.jobStore.misfireThreshold=18000000
\par org.quartz.threadPool.threadCount=1
\par org.quartz.threadPool.threadPriority=5
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 16 - CCTS configuration
\par # 
\par # This is used for OpenClinica instances that have been modified and configured
\par # to work with the Cancer Clinical Trials Suites.  This is a caBIG suite of applications.
\par # The configuration determines how long OpenClinica will hold a transaction from C3PR
\par # and will wait for a roll back message before committing it to the database.
\par #
\par # NOT REQUIRED
\par #############################################################################
\par ccts.waitBeforeCommit=6000
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 17 - Facility information
\par #
\par # The OpenClinica defaults will be used when creating a new study
\par # unless you uncomment each property and provide a value next to 
\par # each = sign.
\par #
\par # NOT REQUIRED
\par #############################################################################
\par # FacName=
\par # FacCity=
\par # FacState=
\par # FacZIP=
\par # FacCountry=
\par # FacContactName=
\par # FacContactDegree=
\par # FacContactPhone=
\par # FacContactEmail=
\par 
\par #############################################################################
\par # 18 - export data file path
\par #
\par # Export Data File Path is the string which (optionally) 
\par # declares a specific file path for file extracts to be
\par # saved.  This is a sub folder of filePath.
\par # Note that if it is set, files from Jobs only will be saved 
\par # to two places: this directory and under the above file path
\par # declared in the 'filePath' property.
\par #
\par # NOT REQUIRED.  Please comment out if you want Jobs to generate
\par # one file/files only, in the directory structure under 'filePath'.
\par #############################################################################
\par # exportFilePath=scheduled_data_export
\par #############################################################################
\par # 19 - Usage statistics configuration
\par #\'ef\'bf\'bdUsage statistics" refers to information automatically sent back to OpenClinica.org
\par # to help us figure out how well OpenClinica is working and help us improve it in 
\par #future versions.
\par #This includes technical information such as the version of OpenClinica installed, the #number of studies created an
d user load. These statistics DO NOT include information such #as study or CRF names, study data, or user information. We collect this data in aggregate #and use it according to our Privacy Policy [LINK TO PRIVACY POLICY] to improve our #products and serv
ices.
\par #
\par #As part of system configuration, we give you the option to help us improve OpenClinica by #sending these usage statistics. If you elect to send this information but later change #your mind, you can disable this feature in the datainfo.properties fi
le by changing 
\par # 'collectStats' value to 'false'
\par collectStats=true
\par usage.stats.host=192.168.15.184
\par usage.stats.port=514
\par OpenClinica_version=SNAPSHOT
\par 
\par }{\b\f4\insrsid4028737 Once done editing these files save it and run the following commands.
\par \tab }{\f4\insrsid4028737 chown -R tomcat /usr/local/tomcat/*
\par \tab chown -R tomcat /usr/local/apache-*
\par 
\par At this point you have installed and setup tomcat, java, postgres and OpenClinica. Restart your computer and verify OpenClinica starts on boot with the following command.
\par \tab reboot
\par 
\par }{\b\f4\insrsid4028737 Verify environment by }{\b\f4\insrsid1533434 viewing the home page}{\f4\insrsid4028737 
\par }{\b\f4\insrsid4028737 --------------------------------------------------------------}{\f4\insrsid4028737 
\par }{\f4\insrsid1533434 Go the URL of the OpenClinica web services home page.  You will see a login screen.}{\f4\insrsid4028737 
\par }{\b\f4\insrsid4028737 
\par Validation and Testing
\par --------------------------------------------------------------
\par }{\f4\insrsid4028737 Please contact contact@akazaresearch.com for services to assist with on-site or remote installation, validation and quality assurance services for OpenClinica.}{\b\f4\insrsid4028737 
\par 
\par Developer and Contact Information
\par --------------------------------------------------------------
\par }{\f4\insrsid4028737 Akaza Research, based in Waltham, MA, provides clinical trials informatics solutions based on OpenClinica, the world's most widely used open source clinical trials software.
\par 
\par Akaza Research
\par 460 Totten Pond Road
\par Suite 200
\par Waltham, MA  02451
\par phone: 617.621.8585
\par fax: 617.621.0065
\par email: contact@akazaresearch.com
\par 
\par For more about Akaza\'eds products and services see:
\par http://www.akazaresearch.com/
\par and
\par http://www.OpenClinica.com/ }{\b\f4\insrsid4028737 
\par }}